README.md, before:

# LinearAlgebraLibrary

## Outline

In this homework we are going to implement a **Linear Algebra** library for c++. 
In this library we are going to implement different functions to allow our users to easilly work and manipulate different **matrices**.
We will be implementing all our functions in `hw1.cpp` and `hw1.h`. remember you should put all declarations in the `.h` and all the implementations in the `.cpp` file.
In order to have a matrix in c++ we need a 2D vector.  We use the following line in order to reduce our syntax. 
```cpp
using Matrix = std::vector<std::vector<double>>;
```
From now on we can use the keyword **Matrix** instead of defining the 2D vector everytime.
So, go ahead and put the above line in your code.

**note.** Define all your functions in a namespace called `algebra`.


## Functions
Now, lets discuss each functions and see how they should be implemented. 

 - **zeros**
implement this function so that it will create a `n x m`  matrix with all elements equal to zero.
	```cpp
	Matrix zeros(size_t n, size_t m)
	```

 - **ones**
implement this function so that it will create a `n x m`  matrix with all elements equal to one.
	```cpp
	Matrix ones(size_t n, size_t m)
	```

 - **random**
implement this function so that it will create a `n x m`  matrix with all elements a random number between `min` and `max`.
	```cpp
	Matrix random(size_t n, size_t m, double min, double max)
	```
	**note.** to generate a random number you are not allowed to use `rand` and `srand` functions. instead, use the `<random>` library first introduced in c++11.


- **show**
implement this function so that it will display the matrix in a beautiful way.
    ```cpp
    void show(const Matrix& matrix)
    ```
    **note.** to display your matrices use the `<iomanip>` library. when showing the numbers, each element of the matrix should have exactly 3 decimal places.


- **multiply** - *scalar number*

  implement this function so that it multiplies the `matrix` into the constant scalar `c`.
    ```cpp
    Matrix multiply(const Matrix& matrix, double c)
    ```
	
- **multiply** - *matrix*

  implement this function so that it multiplies the `matrix1` into `matrix2`. (this is **not** an element-wise multiplication)
    ```cpp
    Matrix multiply(const Matrix& matrix1, const Matrix& matrix2)
    ```

- **sum** - *scalar number*

  implement this function so that it adds the constant number `c` to every element of `matrix`.
    ```cpp
    Matrix sum(const Matrix& matrix, double c)
    ```
	
- **sum** - *matrix*

  implement this function so that it adds 2 matrices to each other.
    ```cpp
    Matrix sum(const Matrix& matrix1, const Matrix& matrix2)
    ```

- **transpose**
implement this function so that it will generate the transpose matrix of the input `matrix`.
    ```cpp
    Matrix transpose(const Matrix& matrix)
    ```

- **minor**
implement this function so that it will create the minor of the input `matrix` with respect to n<sup>th</sup> row and m<sup>th</sup> column.
    ```cpp
    Matrix minor(const Matrix& matrix, size_t n, size_t m)
    ```
    **note.** the indices in c++ start from 0 ~~not 1~~, for example:

    <br>
    <p align="center">
    <img src="resources/minor.png" alt="minor"
    title="minor" width="300" align="middle" />
    </p>
    <br>

- **determinant**
implement this function so that it calculates the determinant of the input `matrix`. 
    ```cpp
    double determinant(const Matrix& matrix)
    ```
    *you should only use the minor approach to calculate the determinant, any other methods (such as upper-triangular or ...) is not allowed.*
	

- **inverse**
implement this function so that it generates the `matrix`'s inverse. 
	```cpp
	Matrix inverse(const Matrix& matrix)
	```

- **concatenate**
implement this function so that it will concatenate `matrix1` and `matrix2` along the specified axis. (`axis=0`: on top of each other | `axis=1`: alongside each other). 
	```cpp
	Matrix concatenate(const Matrix& matrix1, const Matrix& matrix2, int axis=0)
	```

    <br>
    <p align="center">
    <img src="resources/concatenate.png" alt="concatenate"
    title="concatenate" width="500" align="middle" />
    </p>
    <br>
	

- **elementary row operations**
we  want to implement elementary row operation (ERO) functionality for our library. as you know we have 3 EROs:

  `1)`swapping two rows.

  `2)`multiplying a row into a constant number.

  `3)`multiplying a row into a constant number and add it to another row.

  So, lets define the following 3 functions to do this.
    - **swap**
    swaps r<sub>1</sub><sup>th</sup> row with  r<sub>2</sub><sup>th</sup>.
        ```cpp
        Matrix ero_swap(const Matrix& matrix, size_t r1, size_t r2)
        ```
		
    - **multiply**
    multiplies every element in r<sup>th</sup> row with constant number `c`.
        ```cpp
        Matrix ero_multiply(const Matrix& matrix, size_t r, double c)
        ```

    - **sum**
    adds &emsp; r<sub>1</sub><sup>th</sup> x c &emsp; into r<sub>2</sub><sup>th</sup> row.
        ```cpp
        Matrix ero_sum(const Matrix& matrix, size_t r1, double c, size_t r2)
        ```

- **upper triangular**
implement this function so that it will calculate the upper triangular form of the `matrix` using the ERO operations.
    ```cpp
    Matrix upper_triangular(const Matrix& matrix)
    ```
    **note.** to make a upper triangular matrix you have to zero out all the elements which are below the main diagonal, using the elemnts on the main diagonal. consider the following example:
    <br/>
    <br/>
    <p align="center">
    <img src="resources/upper_triangular1.png" alt="upper_triangular1"
    title="upper_triangular1" width="600" align="middle" />
    </p>
      <br/>
    <br/>
  
    use the same trick to zero out `l`, using `j` like the following.
  	
    <br/>
    <br/>
    <p align="center">
    <img src="resources/upper_triangular2.png" alt="upper_triangular2"
    title="upper_triangular2" width="500" align="middle" />
    </p>
      <br/>
      <br/>
  
    ***bonus question** what happens if we come across a zero on our main diagonal for example `a` or `j` in the example above? solve this problem.*

    *The last unit-test is for the bonus question. don't worry too much if it fails.*
	
## Credits

- [Amirkabir University of Technology 1400-2](https://github.com/courseworks/AP1400-2-HW1)

Commit message:

update installation and running in README

README.md, after:

# LinearAlgebraLibrary

## Installation and Running

Install `docker` 

```bash
brew install --cask docker
```

Clone the repository and build the docker image (work in the file with `dockerfile`)

```bash
git clone
cd LinearAlgebraLibrary
docker build -t algebra .
```

Run the container, `/usr/src/app` is your working directory in the container.

```bash
docker run -it -d --name LinearAlgebra -v ./:/usr/src/app algebra /bin/bash
```

Compile and run the unit tests

```bash
cd /usr/src/app/src
g++ -I ../include -o unitTest main.cpp hw1.cpp unit_test.cpp -lgtest -lgtest_main -pthread
./unitTest
```

## Outline

In this homework we are going to implement a **Linear Algebra** library for c++. 
In this library we are going to implement different functions to allow our users to easilly work and manipulate different **matrices**.
We will be implementing all our functions in `hw1.cpp` and `hw1.h`. remember you should put all declarations in the `.h` and all the implementations in the `.cpp` file.
In order to have a matrix in c++ we need a 2D vector.  We use the following line in order to reduce our syntax. 
```cpp
using Matrix = std::vector<std::vector<double>>;
```
From now on we can use the keyword **Matrix** instead of defining the 2D vector everytime.
So, go ahead and put the above line in your code.

**note.** Define all your functions in a namespace called `algebra`.


## Functions
Now, lets discuss each functions and see how they should be implemented. 

 - **zeros**
implement this function so that it will create a `n x m`  matrix with all elements equal to zero.
	```cpp
	Matrix zeros(size_t n, size_t m)
	```

 - **ones**
implement this function so that it will create a `n x m`  matrix with all elements equal to one.
	```cpp
	Matrix ones(size_t n, size_t m)
	```

 - **random**
implement this function so that it will create a `n x m`  matrix with all elements a random number between `min` and `max`.
	```cpp
	Matrix random(size_t n, size_t m, double min, double max)
	```
	**note.** to generate a random number you are not allowed to use `rand` and `srand` functions. instead, use the `<random>` library first introduced in c++11.


- **show**
implement this function so that it will display the matrix in a beautiful way.
    ```cpp
    void show(const Matrix& matrix)
    ```
    **note.** to display your matrices use the `<iomanip>` library. when showing the numbers, each element of the matrix should have exactly 3 decimal places.


- **multiply** - *scalar number*

  implement this function so that it multiplies the `matrix` into the constant scalar `c`.
    ```cpp
    Matrix multiply(const Matrix& matrix, double c)
    ```
	
- **multiply** - *matrix*

  implement this function so that it multiplies the `matrix1` into `matrix2`. (this is **not** an element-wise multiplication)
    ```cpp
    Matrix multiply(const Matrix& matrix1, const Matrix& matrix2)
    ```

- **sum** - *scalar number*

  implement this function so that it adds the constant number `c` to every element of `matrix`.
    ```cpp
    Matrix sum(const Matrix& matrix, double c)
    ```
	
- **sum** - *matrix*

  implement this function so that it adds 2 matrices to each other.
    ```cpp
    Matrix sum(const Matrix& matrix1, const Matrix& matrix2)
    ```

- **transpose**
implement this function so that it will generate the transpose matrix of the input `matrix`.
    ```cpp
    Matrix transpose(const Matrix& matrix)
    ```

- **minor**
implement this function so that it will create the minor of the input `matrix` with respect to n<sup>th</sup> row and m<sup>th</sup> column.
    ```cpp
    Matrix minor(const Matrix& matrix, size_t n, size_t m)
    ```
    **note.** the indices in c++ start from 0 ~~not 1~~, for example:

    <br>
    <p align="center">
    <img src="resources/minor.png" alt="minor"
    title="minor" width="300" align="middle" />
    </p>
    <br>

- **determinant**
implement this function so that it calculates the determinant of the input `matrix`. 
    ```cpp
    double determinant(const Matrix& matrix)
    ```
    *you should only use the minor approach to calculate the determinant, any other methods (such as upper-triangular or ...) is not allowed.*
	

- **inverse**
implement this function so that it generates the `matrix`'s inverse. 
	```cpp
	Matrix inverse(const Matrix& matrix)
	```

- **concatenate**
implement this function so that it will concatenate `matrix1` and `matrix2` along the specified axis. (`axis=0`: on top of each other | `axis=1`: alongside each other). 
	```cpp
	Matrix concatenate(const Matrix& matrix1, const Matrix& matrix2, int axis=0)
	```

    <br>
    <p align="center">
    <img src="resources/concatenate.png" alt="concatenate"
    title="concatenate" width="500" align="middle" />
    </p>
    <br>
	

- **elementary row operations**
we  want to implement elementary row operation (ERO) functionality for our library. as you know we have 3 EROs:

  `1)`swapping two rows.

  `2)`multiplying a row into a constant number.

  `3)`multiplying a row into a constant number and add it to another row.

  So, lets define the following 3 functions to do this.
    - **swap**
    swaps r<sub>1</sub><sup>th</sup> row with  r<sub>2</sub><sup>th</sup>.
        ```cpp
        Matrix ero_swap(const Matrix& matrix, size_t r1, size_t r2)
        ```
		
    - **multiply**
    multiplies every element in r<sup>th</sup> row with constant number `c`.
        ```cpp
        Matrix ero_multiply(const Matrix& matrix, size_t r, double c)
        ```

    - **sum**
    adds &emsp; r<sub>1</sub><sup>th</sup> x c &emsp; into r<sub>2</sub><sup>th</sup> row.
        ```cpp
        Matrix ero_sum(const Matrix& matrix, size_t r1, double c, size_t r2)
        ```

- **upper triangular**
implement this function so that it will calculate the upper triangular form of the `matrix` using the ERO operations.
    ```cpp
    Matrix upper_triangular(const Matrix& matrix)
    ```
    **note.** to make a upper triangular matrix you have to zero out all the elements which are below the main diagonal, using the elemnts on the main diagonal. consider the following example:
    <br/>
    <br/>
    <p align="center">
    <img src="resources/upper_triangular1.png" alt="upper_triangular1"
    title="upper_triangular1" width="600" align="middle" />
    </p>
      <br/>
    <br/>
  
    use the same trick to zero out `l`, using `j` like the following.
  	
    <br/>
    <br/>
    <p align="center">
    <img src="resources/upper_triangular2.png" alt="upper_triangular2"
    title="upper_triangular2" width="500" align="middle" />
    </p>
      <br/>
      <br/>
  
    ***bonus question** what happens if we come across a zero on our main diagonal for example `a` or `j` in the example above? solve this problem.*

    *The last unit-test is for the bonus question. don't worry too much if it fails.*
	
## Credits

- [Amirkabir University of Technology 1400-2](https://github.com/courseworks/AP1400-2-HW1)
